6,000 bucks, we got it.
Wow.
6,000 bucks.
So we didn't go as much.
Oh, that's good.
We stayed for lunch.
So anyway, you can take a look at it there.
He was at the Frankfurt Book Fair this fall.
Is he going to the Leipzig Fair, do you think?
I'm sure he will.
I've been invited at their expense to go to the Leipzig Fair in March, and I think I'll go.
If you ask him, you'll probably need him there.
He gave me copies, both of his current business cards and of one he had during the war, which is kind of cute.
This could be everything you need right there, too.
Well, I think one of his numbers, I think, has changed.
Maybe it was just Xerox.
Yeah, it was Xerox, yeah.
And this was his card during the war.
This card has been printed in a way.
I'd love to have copies of both of you.
One class of those copies.
Anyway, his English is terrific.
He's also a publisher.
What do you call him, Mr. Shachin?
Yeah, there it is.
S with a thing, which would be for the shed and sugar.
I-C-L-S-K-H-I-N-P-A-S with a thingy.
P-A-S with a thingy.
P-A-S-H-I-C.
His first name is Payip.
P-A-P-O-L-D.
With a J. It's pronounced as a Y. Anyway, he's a very clever guy.
Oh.
Anyway, he can also probably help you in negotiating the photo life on this, because he knows all the other publishers in Sarajevo.
Good.
Well, this here is what?
This is his list of books?
Yeah, that's just his list of books at the Sarajevo Book Fair.
The Sarajevo Book Fair.
Yep.
Is there a new national library in Croatia now?
Is that by contrast?
Well, no, they always had a national library in Zagreb.
All the republics had their own national libraries.
But the one in Zagreb has been extensively renovated.
So they have a beautiful new facility.
Yeah.
And they have their own web page as well.
I can give you the name of somebody who is well-connected with them, a Croatian librarian in Canada.
What's their attitude to all of this, I wonder?
The library people.
Well, the Croatian National Library is actually providing a good deal of assistance to the Bosnia National Library now.
It should be noted, actually.
For example, the
new automated systems, you know, the computer stuff, the software, is something that was developed for the lab lab, and it's being now applied to the new lab lab in Sarajevo in terms of institution, you know, structure.
That Georgian thing, you say if I call the Harvard University Press Office,
Uh, they should be able to do it.
Also, you can talk to anybody that's hoping to... I'm having lunch with Roger Stoddard today.
I'll ask Roger.
Yeah, you would know all about it, I guess.
Uh, but I think it was even written up in your time.
I'll do a search as a... I was away.
I was away a lot of this summer doing research.
I'll bet I was away when this thing came down.
Good.
The, uh, you were asking us, you were asking about the assistance of the project, and, uh,
This probably doesn't play a role in what you're writing about, but we've discovered our major challenge now is funding.
Needless to say, I'm not, you know, not fed up or experienced in the ways of fundraising, though it was in Carol's last essay which elicited the one major private donation.
to the project, a gentleman by the name of Lizzie Coolidge, of the Coolidge of Massachusetts, and there'll be lots of them around, called up, and I received a call, and when it became clear that he was speaking as a representative of a family foundation, I suggested that he contacted safer people,
The upshot of that ultimately was a $20,000 donation, which covered the... Jeff, is Mr. Kovich... No, no, he's no longer... Yeah, I think that was only during this brief period.
I'll check it out then.
I mean, he probably won't play in anything.
It's the Susky Foundation.
It's the Family Foundation.
What's the name?
B-U-S-K-Y.
Yeah.
No, I don't think that that's been sort of a privilege information for a long time.
It's fine.
You got help.
He's not the only contributor by any... No, but that was a contribution in a scale far beyond anything else in the industry.
So mostly you're getting $1,500 donations probably.
Yeah, that's sort of... And for a while, you see, because we weren't really under way,
uh the uh the donations were being sent to the saevo foundation rather than to uh projects so a lot of the smaller foundation uh we sent elsewhere uh what this did permit was the uh the point person at favor to
It permitted, therefore, the establishment of the office, Sarajevo office there, and the nomination of Kamal Bakacic as the head of St.
Louis Bosnia.
And it also permitted the purchase of the book, the first container book, to go.
When did that go?
What year?
I used to know exactly.
It arrived December 29th, 1996.
Oh, so it's very easy.
Oh, yeah, thank you.
Oh, is she on the line right now?
No, I said you'd call her back.
Yes, yes.
Thank you.
Sorry, this looks like you must have worked on.
Sorry, no, this is more important.
When will you consider your...
I mean, is this a commitment both of you have?
I mean, I think it's basically an indefinite commitment.
I mean, you know, Andrade is particularly engaged in the documentation and publicity regarding cultural constructions.
I have been...
in the logistics of the library donation process, I managed to persuade OCLC in another of those to agree to provide, on the basis of lists of ISDN numbers from the University Presses, complete bibliographic information on all the donated books.
interested in conservation preservation issues, there being not only destroyed books in Bosnia, but books which survived and books which remain threatened for one reason or another.
And when Andrea Markov became involved in such an incredibly productive way, it sort of turned me on to renew efforts I started last year to elicit interest in paper conservators.
Have you talked to Diane Crest at the Library of Congress?
No, I haven't.
I talked to a whole group of people.
John Dean at Cornell.
These are all people who ran us right up.
front edge, cutting edge.
I mean, who are interested in this kind of... They do it.
Dalin Preston's charge of preservation as well.
No, no, no, no.
But I mean, who are interested in this sort of overseeing the system?
Well, I hope so.
Why not?
I mean... Because I did talk to a couple of people who professed interest that at that time did not have time.
I have one possible volunteer at this point who I've been in correspondence with lately.
The point being that, as with Andy Marto,
She elicited donations, money to support her trip, and went for a month to provide training to people at the National Library.
She's the woman, Andrea... From Minneapolis, the person who did the prepositions.
Okay, Andrea sent me her letter, so I helped her, yeah.
Anyway, where did that go?
Let's go.
Is it something that you gave me?
No, I showed you that album.
You put it back in a pocket.
I think it worked well.
That's your letterhead there?
That's her letterhead.
Actually, this is the letterhead of the Minneapolis Public Library.
She sent a copy of... That's her own address, actually.
She sent me a very real-time picture.
She just sent me a picture of the college outside area with feathers in your back.
I think this is her...
But if you're curious, there's a copy here of one of the letters she sent out to elicit donations.
And she really is an articulate exponent of the cause.
And if you'd like it, I can get that.
Yeah, absolutely.
It's a fantastic couple of things.
So if you want, I can go and put a copy on it for you.
Oh, that's okay.
I've got...
I'm going to start writing this.
And it's all, believe me, all this other stuff we're talking about, about Georgia, and it all works in... What I like is a case study.
Well, it's very interesting.
You're kind of like a political activist.
I know that.
News item is a description of the Georgia Archives.
Oh, great.
Well, that's terrific.
But ask them about it.
I know the Harvard News Office had a release on it.
On loan to Harvard until 2004 from Georgia.
But Harvard decided to retire in 1997.
Wow.
That is so good.
Contact Houghton Library.
Good.
I'll ask about you.
Thanks, I guess.
That's wonderful.
Thirty-five boxes to it.
So it was all microfilm.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
Harvard kept the microfilms and returned the original.
Okay.
So Harvard kept the copy.
They kept the microfilm.
Archival microfilm copy.
And then this is the material that they returned, apparently.
Well, it says, suddenly, thorough correspondence, memorandum, statistical data.
This collection documents the Georgian government's activities
for military affairs to trade in itself upon its Declaration of Independence in 1921.
A keynote for those interested in Soviet history are the Republic of Georgia's relations with the Soviet government during this time.
That's wonderful.
And then they took its great exile in Paris, somehow survived World War II.
And then I think quite late in the game, I think maybe as late as the 60s, as they decided to impress their survivors.
That's very interesting.
There's Stalin as a Georgian.
Yeah, but Georgians are rather ambivalent about him.
I'm sure they are ambivalent, but I'm surprised he didn't make an effort there.
I'm sure he did.
I mean, Stalin was grabbing everything in his audience.
I mean, one of the most discreditable episodes of our activities after World War II is the brief interval between the surrender of Germany and the outset of the Cold War.
Stalin made the demand that all natives of areas included within the Soviet Union were among the millions of people in displaced person camps in the American occupation zone be handed over.
And we handed over not only the former Russian POWs that Hitler has had, but also emigres, people who have fled
in 1917 and had lived for 20 years in, you know, 20, 30 years in Western Europe.
And for the sake of our praying friendship with Stalin, they handed them over and those that weren't immediately shot were sent off to the gulag.
Millions of them, a lot of them, killed themselves by jumping off the shit on the way home.
Is this documented?
Yeah, there's a book by, I think, Holter's son.
There's also a really searing TV documentary called The Orders from Above on the British World in this forced refatuation.
But Stalin was also after all kinds of other things.
One person you might want to talk to, actually, at Harvard is a gentleman named Igor Shevchenko, who was a Ukrainian in one of these camps.
He somehow managed to avoid being returned by force.
He, at that point, was a young student.
And this has a book angle.
He did the first Ukrainian translation of Animal Farm.
Wow.
In the camps, published it clandestinely.
Had it distributed throughout the Allied camps.
Stalin was absolutely furious.
He demanded the Americans search and find for the author of the subversive book and suppress the book.
The Americans were active in trying to suppress the book.
Professor Shevchenko who did this.
And he's here at Harvard?
He's an emeritus at Harvard.
He's still around the area.
And he did the translation under a pseudonym.
Where was he at this time?
He was, I think, in the area in a U.S.
guarded BP camp.
But he managed to elude both the Americans and the KGB, which was cooperating with the Americans.
But he did this translation, and then how did he manage to get it published and printed and distributed, I wonder?
Well, I'm sure it was a fairly clinical publication.
But it's a fascinating book story.
Yeah.
especially where you quote Orwell in 1984 about, we don't worry about the future and the present, we worry about the past.
And it feeds right into the whole cultural genocide context.
That's what Orwell says in 1984 is that you destroy the documents from the past.
That's how you...
On the anniversary of its publication, there was some newspaper articles about it, but I'm sure you'd be delighted to talk to him.
I'd love to talk to him.
This is great.
This is wonderful.
Yeah, here he is.
Oh, could you spell his name?
What's the first name?
I-H-O-R.
Ihor Shevchenko.
S-E-V-C-E-N-K-O S-E-V-C-E-N-K-O S-E-V-C-E-N-K-O S-E-V-C-E-N-K-O S-E-V-C-E-N-K-O S-E-V-C-E-N-K-O S-E-V-C-E-N-K-O S-E-VC-E-N-K-O S-E-VC-E-N-K-O S-E-VC-E-N-K-O S-E-VC-E-N-K-O S-E-VC-E-N-K-O S-E-VC-E-N-K-O S-E-VC-E-N-K-O S-E-VC-E-N-K-O S-E-VC-
They put it in touch so we could do it formally.
We can also do this through the Ukrainian Research Institute.
Anyway, he did the first Ukrainian translation of Animal Farm.
That's wonderful.
That smells great.
Whoever would have thought it'd be a Ukrainian translation.
And, you know, there were more than a million Ukrainian DPs in these camps.
And they snapped this stuff up.
They knew exactly what it was.
So what did they do with their archives and documents?
Do you really want to know?
Yeah.
What do I really want to know?
That's funny.
Where do I put that directory with her?
She is still at the institute, which she might be, has for several decades run a project tracking down what happened to archives in Europe after World War II.
She ran a project.
I'll call her for those.
Patricia Grimstad.
It's S-D-E-A-D.
Now let's do it.
Patricia.
Her name is Patricia Kennedy Grimstad, right?
Yeah.
G-R-I-M-S-D-A-D.
S-D-E-A-D?
Right.
And she is at the Harvard Ukrainian Research Institute.
Harvard Ukrainian.
Research Institute, and she's Dr. Grimstein.
Can I mention that we spoke?
You've got a letter?
I'll be in touch.
Do you have your email address on it?
This is her letter.
This is one of the catalogers taught.
my first letter uh this is the thing we've been handing out uh this is the thing we've been handing out uh published in um library quarterly we would search for that under what would you say her name is library
uh adequate well in that case i can give you something my daughter is excellent she's going to get a very high credit in the new book for translation there's an excellent article on all of this yeah it's a real pleasure yeah good luck i'm just going to start writing and uh
I hope to write the whole thing this year, 1998, and we'll see it in print in 1999.
You may have both of these.
This is... Oh, shoot.
Good.
Don't forget the general stuff now.
Oh, this is good.
This is the... It's a Canadian journal called Documentation Bibliothèque.
And this is most of the article.
I'll do the... Last page is missing, and I'll get it for you.
It's an article.
Okay, good.
That's not the article, but it's here.
The article in there.
Oh, good.
I don't have to go get this out of the library.
It's a French-Canadian journal.
You can start reading it.
Thank you.
Whoops, I didn't do it.